---
title: 2-23-2021
whiteboard_img: whiteboard-sa-2-23-2021.png
---

* A brief discussion on how the "day to day" life of a data scientist totally depends
  on the analytics-maturity of the company for which the data scientist works

## How to test for over- or under-fitting?

The _only_ way to assess whether a model is over/underfit is by testing it against data that it was not trained against. (There are tons of ways to do this, the most simple is train_test_split)

If a model is still _really freaking good_, then you should interrogate it until it is bad. Is there target leak? Is your overfit test no good?

Maybe there are just too many features. Try dropping the number of features.

Try approaches that are _not_ decision trees.

LASSO regression -- penalizes models with a large number of features / models with a high sum of model feature weights.

## Job postings

One posting required "Proficiency in Python, particularly with machine learning and data science libraries such as Tensorflow, PyTorch, scikit-learn,
numpy and scipy." Student asked, what are the similarities, differences between all of these?

World according to me:

* Tensorflow abstracts Keras, and both do "Deep Learning" (Neural Networks).
  - [Kaggle has an "Intro to Deep Learning" lesson](https://www.kaggle.com/learn/intro-to-deep-learning).
  - Deep Learning is a subset of Machine Learning
* Numpy is lowish-level matrix / array functionality.
* Pandas provides "dataframe" abstraction on top of numpy arrays.
* Scipy provides cool functionality on top of matrixy-arrays

## Pairwise matrix of all combinations of points?

What i did was I created a MultiIndex dataframe from all possible combination of unique ip addresses. A multi index is like a sql association table with a multi-column primary key. then I counted the number of rows in each src-dest groupby pair, and i did a pandas join of those counts back onto the multi index dataframe. I thought of that because a mutli-column groupby in pandas leads to a multiindex grouped thing.

Then i set all "null" values in the joined-back table to be 0. that form -- one entry for every possible pair -- is what is called a vector-form distance vector. I used scipy squareform to convert the vector-form to distance-form

## Assignments

Last week, I assigned you a "data sharing" lab. This week, I am working on the following mini labs:
* "standardization vs normalization"
* "Over- and under-sampling"
* "Pipelines"
