---
title: 3-9-2021
whiteboard_img: whiteboard-sa-3-9-2021.png
---


## Pipelines and Deploying

We talked about the pain of needing to reapply transformations to any data for
which a prediction is desired. Sklearn pipelines are a way to encapsulate all
transforms into a single object alongside a final classifier. We read
the [sklearn pipeline documentation page](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.pipeline.Pipeline.html) and also [the example demonstrating
data with mixed columntypes](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/auto_examples/compose/plot_column_transformer_mixed_types.html#sphx-glr-auto-examples-compose-plot-column-transformer-mixed-types-py).

Following a coding interview question that some students received, we also talked about
[classes in python](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/classes.html#a-first-look-at-classes), demonstrating with an example we came up
with of Animals and Dogs, which I promise we totally didn't realize was just
a little bit lower in the official python docs for classes. But we practiced
learning things from carefully reading the docs. I made an aside reference to
"information scent" to help us find valuable content in the docs by reading the
table of contents.

Students in CYBR network security analytics have been asked to write some kind
of unit testing for their projects. We discussed how that might be done. I pointed
to [psiturk](https://github.com/NYUCCL/psiTurk) and [kepler-mapper](https://github.com/scikit-tda/kepler-mapper), two projects with which I have been involved,
to demonstrate in the first instance, mocking API calls and ensuring a fresh
environment for each call, and for the second instance, an example of breaking
out logic into modular function chunks -- private class methods -- to make
unit testing them easier. We mentioned two approaches to unit testing -- one with
a "write the test first, then write code to make the test pass" approach, and another
with "write a test that demonstrates the bug, then fix the code until the test passes"
approach.
